<h3>Public Humanities at Home/Not at Home: American Studies Inside and Outside the Academy</h3><strong>Fri, November 18, 2:00 to 3:45pm, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Centennial G</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Dialogue Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><p>In this roundtable, we discuss the relationship between public humanities efforts and interdisciplinary scholarship, including American Studies, Ethnic Studies, and area studies. In many ways, American Studies scholars seem ideally suited to public engagement with the humanities, given the field’s history of interdisciplinary collaboration, political activism, and community engagement. Yet there are also profound challenges, even conflicts, between the emphasis on historicity, complexity, and specificity in American Studies scholarship, and the desire to speak to a wide variety of constituents on topics of broad interest. How are different Institutions responding to the call for public engagement? What examples of public programming and/or community collaboration are particularly relevant and exciting for American Studies scholars?<br />
<br/>
The roundtable participants come from an array of institutions with different kinds of public humanities programming. Some are focused on supporting interdisciplinary humanistic inquiry across their university campuses or via digital platforms. Others are reaching wider audiences by writing for national magazines, newspapers, and online forums. Still others are working with their surrounding communities, forging partnerships with museums, galleries, and non-profits. We’ll talk about how individuals and/or institutions identify their particular programming goals and outreach strategies. By discussing the particularities of our public humanities efforts, our distinct histories and future goals, we aim to open a window onto the challenges and opportunities of efforts to engage the wider public. This session will be further shaped by attendees’ experiences, concerns, and questions.<br/> <p/>


<h3>Digital Humanities Caucus: Digital Shorts: Centering Digital Humanities Projects in American Studies</h3><strong>Sat, November 19, 10:00 to 11:45am, COLORADO CONVENTION CTR, Level 3, Mineral Hall A</strong><p style="white-space: normal;"><strong>Session Submission Type: </strong>Non-Paper Session: Dialogue Format</p><h4>Abstract</h4><p>The Digital Humanities Caucus proposes a reconceived roundtable session of five-minute “lightning talks” calling on conference attendees to present their newest digital projects, updates on digital works in progress, or related digital work including pedagogical projects. This proposal follows highly successful similar sessions at the Annual Meetings in Baltimore, San Juan, Washington, DC, Los Angeles, and Toronto, and takes its format from the “dork shorts” given at THATCamps (a series of “un-conferences” begun at the Center for History and New Media, George Mason University and now held around the world). This innovative format creates an open space for all to contribute and fosters collaborations.<br />
 <br/>
We will circulate a call for participants (via Twitter, H-AmStdy, the ASA website, and various email lists) in the month before the conference, organize the presentations into a logical progression, prepare a handout with the list of projects and presenter information to share with attendees, and allow for additional presentations from the floor. In recent years, presentations by some twenty participants have prompted conversations extending well beyond the formal session. Presenters range from senior faculty to new graduate students covering a range of topics and projects including digital archiving, data mapping, pedagogy, online publication, public history, digital social justice, and digital humanities tools. We expect the session will continue to grow in 2016.<br />
 <br />
The conveners of the session will again work hard to ensure that the presenters are representative both of the ASA’s membership and of the breadth of digital projects currently in progress. We will make a point to solicit projects that address the conference theme of home/not home. The conference theme suggests a focus on digital mapping and other digital projects engaging themes and places connected to home and its absence through migration, settler colonialism, homelessness, and indigenous presences in the Americas. We also plan to invite projects that interrogate the relationship between digital humanities and American studies, asking what happens when we center digital humanities work in American studies, and when we center the concerns of American studies scholars in the digital humanities field. <br />
<br />
Session conveners will also be in charge of moderating the session, enforcing a five minute maximum for all presentations, reserving time for discussion of issues the presentations raise, and facilitating that discussion at the end of the session. We will claim a hashtag to encourage online discussions during and after the panel session and conference.<br />
 <br />
This session's lightning talk format incorporates elements central to digital humanities practice, from a Web 2.0 “wisdom of the crowd” sensibility, to the quickly changing nature of digital projects which don’t lend themselves to the ASA’s longer time-line for paper proposals. This model for scholarly communication offers the field of American studies new opportunities for forging from-the-bottom-up ways of making knowledge.</p>
